[SC-902] Limit order v4 description (#263)
1inch/limit-order-protocol: description.md

| --- | --- | --- |
| salt | `uint256` | Order salt contains order salt and applicable extensions hash.<br/> The highest 96 bits represent salt, and the lowest 160 bit represent extension hash. |
| maker | `address` | The maker’s address |
| receiver | `address` | The receiver’s address. The taker assets will be transferred to this address. |
| makerAsset | `address` | The maker’s asset address.  |
| takerAsset | `address` | The taker’s asset address.  |
| makingAmount | `uint256` | The amount of tokens maker will give |
| takingAmount | `uint256` | The amount of tokens maker wants to receive |
| makerTraits | `MakerTraits` (uint256) | Limit order options, coded as bit flags into uint256 number. |

> **Note:** The order becomes invalidated after it is filled. Therefore, the salt should be different for orders that have all parameters equal. This ensures that the fill of one order does not invalidate all orders.
> 

## Order settings

The `makerTraits` property contains order settings as bit flags and compacted numbers in a `uint256` format. The bit flags are listed from highest to lowest bit.

| Option name | Bit position | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | NO_PARTIAL_FILLS | 255 | If set, the order does not allow partial fills.<br/>Partial fill only occurs when part of the required maker’s asset amount is swapped. This could be useful for large orders that can be hardly filled by only one taker. |

Author: yes, exactly

> | NO_PARTIAL_FILLS | 255 | If set, the order does not allow partial fills.<br/>Partial fill only occurs when part of the required maker’s asset amount is swapped. This could be useful for large orders that can be hardly filled by only one taker. |

Reviewer: Then I think it's worth mentioning this fact (counting from 0), what do you think?

> | NO_PARTIAL_FILLS | 255 | If set, the order does not allow partial fills.<br/>Partial fill only occurs when part of the required maker’s asset amount is swapped. This could be useful for large orders that can be hardly filled by only one taker. |

Author: fixed

| PRE_INTERACTION_CALL | 252 | If set, the order requires pre-interaction call.<br/>Set the flag to execute maker’s pre-interaction call.<br/>See [Interactions](#interactions) section for details. |
| POST_INTERACTION_CALL | 251 | If set, the order requires post-interaction call.<br/>Set the flag to execute maker’s post-interaction call.<br/>See [Interactions](#interactions) section for details. |
| NEED_CHECK_EPOCH_MANAGER | 250 | If set, an order uses epoch manager for cancelling.<br/>See [Cancel an order](#cancel-an-order) for details. |
| HAS_EXTENSION | 249 | If set, the order applies extension(s) logic during fill.<br/>See [Order extensions](#order-extensions) for available extensions and usage details. |
| USE_PERMIT2 | 248 | If set, the order uses [Uniswap Permit2](https://github.com/Uniswap/permit2)  |
| UNWRAP_WETH | 247 | If set, the order requires unwrapping WETH |

The rest of the settings are located in the lowest 200 bits of the number, from lowest to highest.

> | Option name | Size, bits | Description |
> | --- | --- | --- |
> | ALLOWED_SENDER | 80 | This option is used to make an order private and restrict filling to only one specified taker address. The option consists of the last 10 bytes of the allowed sender's address. A value of zero means that no restrictions will be applied. |
> | EXPIRATION | 40 | Expiration timestamp for the order. Order cannot be filled after the expiration deadline. Zero value means that there is no expiration time for the order. |
> | NONCE_OR_EPOCH | 40 | The nonce or epoch of the order. See <cancel order> for details. |
> | SERIES | 40 | The series of the order. See <cancel order> for details. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Option name | Size, bits | Position, bit numbers | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ALLOWED_SENDER | 80 | 0-79 | This option is used to make an order private and restrict filling to only one specified taker address. The option consists of the last 10 bytes of the allowed sender's address. A value of zero means that no restrictions will be applied. |
| EXPIRATION | 40 | 80-119 | Expiration timestamp for the order. Order cannot be filled after the expiration deadline. Zero value means that there is no expiration time for the order. |
| NONCE_OR_EPOCH | 40 | 120-159 | The nonce or epoch of the order. See <cancel order> for details. |
| SERIES | 40 | 160-199 | The series of the order. See <cancel order> for details. |
```

| TakingAmountGetter | [12..15] |
| Predicate | [16..19] |
| MakerPermit | [20..23] |
| PreInteractionData | [24..27] |
| PostInteractionData | [28..31] |

The `CustomData` calldata is located after all extensions. Its start is defined as the end offset for `PostInteractionData`, and its end is the offset of the end of the calldata.

**Example**

For orders that have a predicate with a length of 120 bytes, a permit of 32 bytes included, and 32 bytes of custom data, the extension calldata should be packed as follows:

| Offsets |  | MakerPermit offset | Predicate offset |  |  |  |  | Predicate calldata | Permit calldata | Custom data calldata |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [28..31] | [24..27] | [20..23] | [16..19] | [12..15] | [8..11] | [4..7] | [0..3] | [32..151] | [152..183] | [184..216] |
| 152 | 152 | 152 | 120 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | calldata (120 bytes) | calldata (32 bytes) | calldata (32 bytes) |

The following is the final calldata which includes the offsets.

```bash
#  28-31    24-27    20-23    16-19    12-15     8-11      4-7      0-3
00000098 00000098 00000098 00000078 00000000 00000000 00000000 00000000

> #         predicate end => ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ <= predicate start

Reviewer 2: Above in line 191 it is said that the offset of predicate is in 16..19 bits

Author: fixed

> #   permit end => ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ <= permit start

Reviewer 2: The offset data for the `predicate` and `permit` seem to overlap

# 32  bytes of permit
# 32  bytes of custom data
```

### **Non-ERC20 tokens swap**

To swap tokens with a transfer function signature that do not comply with the IERC20 interface `IERC20.transferFrom(from, to, amount)`, you need to use a proxy contract. The proxy contract takes `from`, `to`, and `amount` arguments, maps them to the token transfer function, and adds additional parameters from the suffix calldata.

In this case, `makerAsset` and/or `takerAsset` should contain the address of the proxy contract, and the token address should be encoded into the suffix with additional arguments. The suffix consists of packed bytes representing the calldata of parameters that are passed to the proxy contract.

Examples of tokens that have already implemented this method are based on the following standards:

- ERC721 - `IERC721.transferFrom(from, to, tokenId)`
- ERC1155 - `IERC1155.safeTransferFrom(from, to, tokenId, amount, data)`

To implement your custom proxy:

1. Implement a function that receives `from`, `to`, and `amount` as the first three parameters, along with additional parameters that will be passed with `makerAssetSuffix` and/or `takerAssetSuffix`.

> 2. Find the function name whose selector equals `transferFrom(from,to,amount)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Compute and select a function name whose selector matches `transferFrom(from,to,amount)`.
```

> 3. Implement `transferFrom` for the token.

Reviewer 2: It looks like this items should be a little more detailed. Where the one should search function with specific selector? Does `transferFrom` from item 3 is equal to the method from item 2?

Author: fixed

> 3. Implement `transferFrom` for the token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Implement your own `transferFrom` method in the function from item 2 for the token
```

    /// Note that `amount` is unused for security reasons to prevent unintended ERC-721 token sale via partial fill
    // keccak256("func_60iHVgK(address,address,uint256,uint256,address)") == 0x23b872dd (IERC20.transferFrom)
    function func_60iHVgK(address from, address to, uint256 /* amount */, uint256 tokenId, IERC721 token) external onlyImmutableOwner {
        token.transferFrom(from, to, tokenId);
    }
}
```

As you can see, the `amount` parameter is not used, but the function still needs to accept it. Additionally, two extra parameters, `tokenId` and `token`, are passed to the function to perform the `transferFrom` operation.

**To use this proxy, the order should:**

1. Include the proxy address in the `makerAsset` or `takerAddress` field.
2. Have the `HAS_EXTENSION` flag set.
3. Include an extension with either `makerAssetSuffix` or `takerAssetSuffix` set, with the packed `tokenId` and `token` address. This information will be passed to the proxy when the order is filled.

> Note: This extension is incompatible with the `USE_PERMIT2_FLAG` setting.
> 

**Example**

> Here is the code that creates an order:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is the sample code that creates an order:
```

> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should rename `addr1` in example and explain where users can get `buildOrder` method

Author: These examples are located in tests/examples/LimitOrderProtocol-example.js. If a reader needs it, he can find the implementation in code.

| --- | --- | --- |
| 20 bytes | 4 bytes | variable size calldata |

When the order is executed and the protocol calculates the amount, the selector on the provided contract address is called, and the packed arguments are passed. Additionally the arguments calldata is extended with:

- `requestedAmount` is the requested amount to calculate making or taking amount for.
- `remainingMakingAmount` is the remaining making amount for the order, which can be different from an order's `makingAmount` if the order was partially filled previously.
- `orderHash` is the order’s hash.

Therefore, the final call would be as follows:

```solidity
address.selector(<arguments from calldata>, requestedAmount, remainingMakingAmount, orderHash)
```

The function is expected to return a `uint256` value that corresponds to the passed `requestedAmount`.

**Example**

The code creates an order that uses `RangeAmountCalculator` to calculate the making and taking amounts.

```javascript
// Order: 10 weth -> 35000 dai with price range: 3000 -> 4000
const makingAmount = ether('10');
const takingAmount = ether('35000');
const startPrice = ether('3000');
const endPrice = ether('4000');

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

const rangeAmountCalculator = await ethers.getContractFactory('RangeAmountCalculator');

```

> const makingAmountGetter = rangeAmountCalculator.address + trim0x(cutLastArg(cutLastArg(

Reviewer 2: Should we explain that `rangeAmountCalculator` is object  of deployed contract `RangeAmountCalculator` or is it redundant information?

Author: Here the focus is on the calldata produced by the code. A user can implement any code that produces the same calldata. The point is that calldata should be the same as shown below

    rangeAmountCalculator.interface.encodeFunctionData('getRangeMakerAmount', [startPrice, endPrice, makingAmount, 0, 0], 64),
)));

const takingAmountGetter = rangeAmountCalculator.address + trim0x(cutLastArg(cutLastArg(

>     rangeAmountCalculator.interface.encodeFunctionData('getRangeTakerAmount', [startPrice, endPrice, makingAmount, 0, 0], 64),

Reviewer 2: Do we really need `cutLastArg`x2? Is it useful to know why we cut something?

Author: Again, the focus is on the calldata produced by the code. A user can implement any code that produces the same calldata. The point is that calldata should be the same as shown below

```solidity
// Fill from EOA
function fillOrderToExt(
        IOrderMixin.Order calldata order,
        bytes32 r,
        bytes32 vs,
        uint256 amount,
        TakerTraits takerTraits,
        address target,
        bytes calldata interaction,
        bytes calldata extension
    ) public payable returns(uint256 makingAmount, uint256 takingAmount, bytes32 orderHash) {

// Fill from smart contract
function fillContractOrderExt(
        IOrderMixin.Order calldata order,
        bytes calldata signature,
        uint256 amount,
        TakerTraits takerTraits,
        address target,
        bytes calldata interaction,
        bytes calldata permit,
        bytes calldata extension
    ) public returns(uint256 makingAmount, uint256 takingAmount, bytes32 orderHash)
```

| Argument | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| order | `Order` (calldata) | The order structure to be filled.  |
| r | `bytes32` | The r-component of the maker’s signature to check that the order hash is signed by the maker. |
| vs | `bytes32` | The vs-component of the maker’s signature to check that the order hash is signed by the maker. |

> | signature | `bytes calldata` | The signature used to verify the order. It is used for contract-signed orders only. |

Reviewer 2: It could be useful to mention ERC-1271 and `isValidSignature` method

Author: fixed

> | amount | `uint256` | The amount to fill the order, which can be treated as the maker or taker amount, depending on fill settings. If the amount is greater than the remaining amount to fill, the fill will be executed only for the remaining amount. When partial fills are not allowed, the fill will be reverted if the amount does not equal the order making amount. The fill will also be reverted if the making and taking amounts are equal to zero. |

Reviewer 2: Small update about `making and taking amounts are equal to zero`
```
unchecked { if (makingAmount * takingAmount == 0) revert SwapWithZeroAmount(); }
```

Author: fixed

| takerTraits | `TakerTraits` (uint256) | The taker’s setting for the order fill. See Fill settings for details. |

> | target | `address` | The recipient address for maker assets transfer.. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| target | `address` | The recipient address for maker assets transfer. |
```

> | interaction | `bytes calldata` | The taker interaction to execute during the fill. See interactions for details. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| interaction | `bytes calldata` | The taker interaction to execute during the fill. See [Interactions](#interactions) section for details. |
```

| extension | `bytes calldata` | The order’s extension calldata. The extension’s keccak256 hash has to be equal to the 160-lower bit of order’s salt. |
| permit | `bytes calldata` | The taker’s permit for the taker assets transfer. |

The return values are:

| Return value | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| makingAmount | `uint256` | The actual amount the maker received  |

> | takingAmount | `uint256` | The actual amount the taker recieved |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| takingAmount | `uint256` | The actual amount the taker received |
```

There are several ways to cancel an order:

### Automatically (indirect ways)

- **Cancel by expiration deadline**: The simplest way to cancel an order automatically is to set an expiration deadline using the order's `MakerTraits`. Once the expiration date has passed, it is no longer possible to fill the order. Any fill attempts will be reverted with an `OrderExpired` error.
- **Cancellation by a condition defined in a predicate**: If the condition defined by the order's predicate starts evaluating to false on each check, the order becomes obsolete and cannot be filled anymore. Any fill attempts will be reverted with a `PredicateIsNotTrue` error.

### Manually (direct ways)

Manual methods require sending a cancel transaction, which requires spending gas.

- **Cancel by hash:** The order can be cancelled by directly calling the `cancelOrder` function and passing the `orderHash` and `makerTraits` of the order.

    > **Note**: Orders are cancelled using different invalidators depending on the maker traits flags `ALLOW_MULTIPLE_FILLS` and `NO_PARTIAL_FILL`. Passing wrong traits may result in the call having no effect, and the order will not be cancelled.
    > 

>     The fill attempts will be reverted with a `BitInvalidatedOrder` error if an order doesn't allow either partial or multiple fills, or with an `InvalidatedOrder` error otherwise.

Reviewer 2: This is not very clear what this is referring to

Author: fixed

| NEED_CHECK_EPOCH_MANAGER | 250 | If set, an order uses epoch manager for cancelling.<br/>See [Cancel an order](#cancel-an-order) for details. |
| HAS_EXTENSION | 249 | If set, the order applies extension(s) logic during fill.<br/>See [Order extensions](#order-extensions) for available extensions and usage details. |
| USE_PERMIT2 | 248 | If set, the order uses [Uniswap Permit2](https://github.com/Uniswap/permit2)  |
| UNWRAP_WETH | 247 | If set, the order requires unwrapping WETH |

The rest of the settings are located in the lowest 200 bits of the number, from lowest to highest.

| Option name | Size, bits | Location, bits | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ALLOWED_SENDER | 80 | [0..79] | This option is used to make an order private and restrict filling to only one specified taker address. The option consists of the last 10 bytes of the allowed sender's address. A value of zero means that no restrictions will be applied. |
| EXPIRATION | 40 | [80..119] | Expiration timestamp for the order. Order cannot be filled after the expiration deadline. Zero value means that there is no expiration time for the order. |

> | NONCE_OR_EPOCH | 40 | [120..159] | The nonce or epoch of the order. See <cancel order> for details. |

Author: fixed

> | NONCE_OR_EPOCH | 40 | [120..159] | The nonce or epoch of the order. See <cancel order> for details. |

Reviewer: Could you please give me a link to this fix? In the PR files it's still the same for me
<img width="1034" alt="image" src="https://github.com/1inch/limit-order-protocol/assets/94478708/8da5de44-d189-4eab-9a77-c3911b3dff53">

> | NONCE_OR_EPOCH | 40 | [120..159] | The nonce or epoch of the order. See <cancel order> for details. |

Author: Sorry, fixed it in line 93 and missed it here.
Now it should be fixed.

        
        > **Note:** The `or` predicate is limited to 8 operands. To extend the limit, chain several `or` predicates.
        > 
    
    - `not(bytes calldata data)` - returns `true` if the calldata execution result is 0.

3. Custom conditions
    - `arbitraryStaticCall(address target, bytes calldata data)` - executes the `calldata` on a third-party contract (`target`) and should return a `uint256` number.
        
        > **Note:** The call is executed using `staticcall` and will revert if any state changes occur. Therefore, only view calls are permitted.
        > 
        

**Example 1**

Stop-loss and take profit conditions can be set for a limit order:

```javascript
// Build condition => (daiPrice < 1000) or (daiPrice > 2000)
// Init
const LimitOrderProtocol = await ethers.getContractFactory('LimitOrderProtocol');
const swap = await LimitOrderProtocol.deploy(weth.address);
await swap.deployed();
// Build predicate
// 1. Create calldata to call oracle to get latest DAI price
const priceCall = swap.interface.encodeFunctionData('arbitraryStaticCall', [
            daiOracle.address,
            daiOracle.interface.encodeFunctionData('latestAnswer'),
        ]);

> // 2. Create calldata for condition that price should be less then 1000

Author: fixed

> // 2. Create calldata for condition that price should be less then 1000

Reviewer: Please, fix this as well `Create calldata for condition that price should be more then 2000`

> // 2. Create calldata for condition that price should be less then 1000

Author: fixed

const comparelt = swap.interface.encodeFunctionData('lt', [ether('1000'), priceCall])
// 3. Create calldata for condition that price should be more then 2000
const comparegt = swap.interface.encodeFunctionData('gt', [ether('2000'), priceCall])
// 4. Add `or` condition (joinStaticCalls - concatenates calldata)
const { offsets, data } = joinStaticCalls([comparelt, comparegt]);

> **predicate** = swap.interface.encodeFunctionData('or', [offsets, data]);

Author: fixed

        uint256 amount,
        TakerTraits takerTraits,
        address target,
        bytes calldata interaction,
        bytes calldata permit,
        bytes calldata extension
    ) public returns(uint256 makingAmount, uint256 takingAmount, bytes32 orderHash)
```

| Argument | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| order | `Order` (calldata) | The order structure to be filled.  |
| r | `bytes32` | The r-component of the maker’s signature to check that the order hash is signed by the maker. |
| vs | `bytes32` | The vs-component of the maker’s signature to check that the order hash is signed by the maker. |
| signature | `bytes calldata` | The signature used to verify the order. It is used for contract-signed orders only. |
| amount | `uint256` | The amount to fill the order, which can be treated as the maker or taker amount, depending on fill settings. If the amount is greater than the remaining amount to fill, the fill will be executed only for the remaining amount. When partial fills are not allowed, the fill will be reverted if the amount does not equal the order making amount. The fill will also be reverted if the making and taking amounts are equal to zero. |

> | takerTraits | `TakerTraits` (uint256) | The taker’s setting for the order fill. See Fill settings for details. |

Author: fixed

| target | `address` | The recipient address for maker assets transfer. |
| interaction | `bytes calldata` | The taker interaction to execute during the fill. See [Interactions](#interactions) section for details. |
| extension | `bytes calldata` | The order’s extension calldata. The extension’s keccak256 hash has to be equal to the 160-lower bit of order’s salt. |
| permit | `bytes calldata` | The taker’s permit for the taker assets transfer. |

The return values are:

| Return value | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| makingAmount | `uint256` | The actual amount the maker received  |
| takingAmount | `uint256` | The actual amount the taker received |
| orderHash | `bytes32` | The hash of the order |

## Fill settings

The `takerTraits` argument provides a number of options for the taker to choose from during each fill. These options are stored as bit flags and numbers compacted in a `uint256` number. The bit flags in `takerTraits` are arranged in descending order of significance, with the highest bit first.

| Option name | Bit position | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | MAKER_AMOUNT_FLAG | 255 bit | If set, the protocol implies that the passed amount is the making amount, and the taking amount will be calculated based on the making amount. Otherwise, the passed amount is the taking amount, and the making amount is calculated based on the taking amount. The amount is calculated with AmountCalculator if getters are not set, or with getters provided with an extension by the maker. |

Author: yes, exactly

### Manually (direct ways)

Manual methods require sending a cancel transaction, which requires spending gas.

- **Cancel by hash:** The order can be cancelled by directly calling the `cancelOrder` function and passing the `orderHash` and `makerTraits` of the order.

    > **Note**: Orders are cancelled using different invalidators depending on the maker traits flags `ALLOW_MULTIPLE_FILLS` and `NO_PARTIAL_FILL`. Passing wrong traits may result in the call having no effect, and the order will not be cancelled.
    > 

    The fill attempts will be reverted with a `BitInvalidatedOrder` error if an order doesn't allow either partial or multiple fills, or with an `InvalidatedOrder` error otherwise.

- **Cancel by nonce:** the order is cancelled by changing the order nonce. This method can be used for mass order cancellation. Each order can have a series and nonces specified. They are defined as:
    - **series** - specifies the application that issued the order

>     - **nonce** - ****specifies the order’s generation

Author: fixed
